# CS301_Individual
## Project Proposal - Joshua Kobuskie
### Individually Completed CS301 Project
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The problem I will be investigating is the [“H&M Personalized Fashion Recommendations”](https://www.kaggle.com/c/h-and-m-personalized-fashion-recommendations) project. Through this project, I will investigate personalizing product recommendations using artificial intelligence and machine learning based on customer and product metadata. This is a very interesting challenge because of its real world applications. H&M, along with many other online retailers, is always looking to increase sales and improve their customer experience. By exploring this project, I will be able to gain a deeper understanding of machine learning and also apply it to a meaningful purpose that could be utilized in future career opportunities. To provide context and background into the field of machine learning and product recommendations, I will be examining ["THE USE OF MACHINE LEARNING ALGORITHMS IN RECOMMENDER SYSTEMS: A SYSTEMATIC REVIEW"](https://www.ijrar.org/papers/IJRAR19K2241.pdf).<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;To train my machine learner(s), I will be utilizing the data provided by H&M including images of each product, metadata for each product and customer, and training data consisting of the purchases each customer made on each date. As per the project description, I can choose to “investigate a categorical data type algorithm, or dive into NLP and image processing deep learning.” At this time, I plan to implement a multi-label classification learner focused on categorical data. I will analyze the transactions dataset and customer metadata to predict the probability of a customer buying a specific product. If the probability of purchasing is higher than a threshold, I will predict that the product will be bought by that customer. There are many multi-label classification algorithms that can be used as a reference point for my model. I plan to utilize the standard conventions for an imbalanced classification model and will adapt it to fit my data. I will then optimize the thresholds for determining if a product is predicted to be purchased by a customer.<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;my model will attempt to predict the article_ids each customer will purchase during the 7-day period immediately after the training data period. Thus, to evaluate my results, I will compare the predicted article_ids to the actual article_ids purchased. Qualitatively, I expect to create tables linking customer_ids to predicted article_ids. The probability of any given article_id being purchased could be represented as a bar graph displaying the probability of a specific customer buying any of the specific articles in the next seven days. Quantitatively, I can measure my performance by using typical methods implemented by multi-label classification problems including log loss functions and Brier scores. I can also calculate the Mean Average Precision of the model since that is the value that the Kaggle competition uses to evaluate the submissions.<br>
